# V 0.2.0

## Signals

* Source (just `atom`?)
* Junction (fmap)
* Sink (can have watchers and be disposed)

## Memory Management

* Junctions and sinks are created with references to their dependencies.
* When a sink is gets its first watcher, it inserts pointers to itself to its
  dependencies (adds watches).
* When a junction gets its first dependent pointer (watcher), it adds pointers
  (watches) to itself to its dependencies and sets its cached values and visited
  flag to make sense to the propagator.
* Sinks need to be explicitly disposed. When a sink is disposed, it removes
  the dependent pointers to itself from its dependencies (removes watches)
  and any pointers it has to its own watchers (warn if non-zero?).
* When the last dependent (watch) is removed from a junction, it removes the
  dependent pointers (watches) from its dependencies.
* We can just use empty objects (or arrays) as watch keys in tried and tested
  Scheme style, so `PerpetualKeyDepot` can be removed.

## Propagation

1. Source update phase: `(transaction propagator sources (fn ... ; transaction code`.
   Set prospective values on `sources`. Runs synchronously to completion.
2. Propagation phase: postorder walk of signal DAG. Each junction is fed the prospective
   values of its dependencies. It caches and returns its prospective value. Affected
   sinks are collected into a buffer. Uses `requestIdleCallback`, having a yield point
   at every node. If none of the dependencies of a node changed (by `identical?`) it
   can just use its old value. Junctions can of course elect to do a more semantic
   memoize.
3. Commit phase: Prospective values are made current and visited flags unvisited flags
   by flipping a bit in the propagator, high-perf GC marking style. Sinks call their
   watchers and effects (DOM updates) happen batched. Runs synchronously to completion.

If there is an exception, the changes to sources and junctions can be rolled
back with a (slow) traversal to make the whole graph consistent. Any exception
should be a bug but at least devs don't need to reload the frontend...

The propagator needs a transaction queue to put transactions that arrive when
it is not idle. Could add some soft realtime heuristics (like core.async
'sliding' and 'dropping') and/or backpressure hooks (to put up an alert or
spinner or sth).

## DOM

DOM nodes have a bunch of sinks. When the DOM node is (transitively) mounted to
the visible DOM, the sinks (and thus their dependencies) get activated. When
the DOM node is removed from the visible DOM, the sinks are disposed of (unlike
Hoplon, DOM nodes are not cached to avoid memory leaks -- we try not to have any).

* Maybe DOM nodes should just *be* sinks?

